Hello everyone, welcome to episode 3 of the Grand Prixquel Podcast, where we discuss all things feeder series.
On today's episode, we are going to be doing a Formula 3 season preview.
Our hosts today are myself, Robin, Alex, Peter, and Nova.
And shout out to our producer, Evan, who is here but is not speaking.
I think we should start in team order, so we can start with Campos.
Yeah, so, of course, within Campos, the main kind of driver will be Ugo Ugochukwu.
He won the Formula Regional Oceania Trophy over the winter.
And while he did struggle a bit in F3 last year, he definitely did pick up the results towards the end of the season, I'd say, from around Austria.
Yeah, he was with Prema last year, wasn't he?
Yeah.
Yeah, and obviously we kind of know what's going on with Prema.
But, like, remember when they took the paint off his car last year when they went to the black livery?
Yeah.
He seems like something changed in him, and he definitely did improve as a driver then.
So, the main thing, I think, for him is, can he continue this momentum on, you know, I'd say he finished the season quite strong.
He won in New Zealand.
Can he bring that momentum now to the main F3 season?
I think he definitely could be a title challenger.
But, um, I guess it'll depend on how strong Trident is.
Yeah, but, I mean, Campos were quite strong as well.
I mean, they won the team's title.
And Tsolov was, I mean, until the disqualification in Austria, he was keeping close-ish, I'd say.
Yeah, he was really close.
He was keeping up.
And so, I think Campos can deliver the car.
It's more if Ugo can keep it consistent.
Because, I mean, in Formula Regional Oceania, this isn't true.
But I feel like at other parts of his career, he has struggled with consistency.
And, of course, in New Zealand, it is only one month long, which is a very short season.
Yeah, it was like five weeks in a row, wasn't it?
Was it four or five weeks in a row?
Four weeks.
Four weeks in a row.
And, yeah.
And I feel like we can't ignore the other two drivers in Campos as well, because they are decent.
I mean, yeah, you have Niall, who literally won the Macau Grand Prix in November.
I think we're really, really underrating him, because last season he was with Van Amersfoort, who really did not look really comfortable.
And I remember him, because he was kind of getting that idea of he was really aggressive.
And he was, I don't even know if that's true, but from the German commentators, who often got that title, like he was really aggressive.
And he often got into duels.
But I think he was really interesting.
And I remember him on quite a few occasions where he did really good.
And if Campos can deliver the same package that they also brought to Tsolov and also Boya and Inthraphuvasak, I think it should work out.
And I remember last season where Boya suddenly did, I think it was after he was announced with Aston Martin, where he suddenly seemed to, like, make a huge jump in what he did.
And I wonder if that was exclusively just, you know, his Aston Martin thing.
Or if maybe something else at the team worked.
The same way you talked about Ugo getting better at Prema when they took off the paint.
Maybe Campos found a way to, you know, set up the car better.
Because I also think Tasanapol did really good to it.
Didn't he win the last race or something?
Yeah, he won at some point at the end, I think.
And sometimes I think it's also just a mental thing.
Because, you know, you get, maybe you join an academy or something changes and you finally think mentally, okay, I can do this.
Because the mentality is so important as to how you think of yourself as a driver.
Just mentality speaking.
I mean, as you've said, Ugo Ugochukwu just already won a championship this season.
Nael just won Macau.
Just, like, pretty much last season.
Can someone say something about Rivera?
I mean, hopefully he gets better soon.
Yeah, he got injured in Formula Regional Oceania.
And he hasn't been able to do testing and he's not able to do Australia either.
Yeah, I mean, last year he competed in EC3 and he finished fourth, I think.
So, I mean…
Maybe his big idol is just Carlos Sainz and he'll come back better than ever.
Do we know that?
We have to be positive.
Yeah, no, I mean, it's just more about how serious is his injury.
I think it's his back which he injured, so…
Oh, that's bad.
Yeah.
I just really hope he's good.
It's just, you know…
He doesn't feel like driving.
Obviously, everyone wants to drive, but, like, if it's, like, just a small injury and he's
like, I want to do good over the whole season rather than risk a bigger injury if I get
it back in the car too soon.
Because I think F3 has quite the break before they go on again now.
Yeah, there's, like, a huge break.
Yeah, if you say maybe you only need a week or two or maybe he's good already, but he hasn't
had the chance to train yet again and get back to the feeling in the car, I think it's
better to be careful and then do the rest of the season rather than do one race and risk
not being able to compete any more races over that season.
And I want to be positive for him.
You want to be 100% okay.
You don't want to risk a further injury.
And, yeah, I just wish all the best to him and that he's able to recover.
I don't actually know how to say the name of the guy who's replacing him.
Patrick Heuzenroeder.
Heuzenroeder?
Okay, yeah.
He’s in
Eurocup 3 with Campos.
He has that home race mentality.
He'll win.
Yeah, exactly.
He'll win it on his debut.
I mean, he did well in GB3 last year.
Yeah.
I mean, he is a solid driver and…
He was runner-up in GB3 last year.
So…
Yeah, so it's more now like…
I mean, of course he'll improve himself and he will...
And Campos is a good team as we've established.
So let's see what he can do next week.
Does anyone else have much to say about Campos or...?
I think one last thing we can say about Ugo is that…
Obviously, he's been dropped by McLaren.
Will that make him drop?
Yeah.
Because I think if we talk about the McLaren Academy, we have to consider the same way that they've just, you know, handled all the juniors.
And I could imagine, especially for him as an American, that maybe there are better possibilities for him if he's not related to McLaren anymore, you know?
The same way that…
I know it's not the same as for Dunne because he actually is closer there.
But for Ugo, it's kind of the same if you think about it.
He's hopefully going to F2 after this season.
And he will not plan to do two seasons in F2.
Yeah, I think if I'm Ugo, I'm very much thinking…
I'd call up Cadillac.
Exactly.
And I'm thinking, OK, I have him to prove now.
Let me go win F3 and prove to these teams how good I am and get them to sign me.
Exactly.
And I think he doesn't necessarily need the monetary support of McLaren.
And I think he can afford racing.
I mean, he's still at Campos.
Campos is still a good team.
Arguably better than Prema was last season.
So I think if I was him and I didn't need McLaren and, you know, you're not promised a seat at McLaren, I would too leave.
Yeah, and yeah, now…
Moving on to Trident.
Yeah, so of course the big name there is Freddie Slater.
If you know me, you know I am one of his biggest fans.
So yeah, he is definitely one of the titles favorites, I'd say.
He won FRECA last year, won Italian F4 the year before, and the year before that he won Ginetta Juniors and KZ2.
So he is fast in everything he competes in.
And of course he had the 2 one-off of F3 appearances last year, taking P2 in the AIX in Bahrain.
So he is very much, I'd say, he's going to come out swinging, and even in testing, he had the fastest time of the test, and he was consistently up there.
So, and given how strong Trident has been the last few years, of course, taking the last, I think, the last three champions to the title, he is totally going to be in the title fight.
I think he's by far the title favorite.
Oh yeah, definitely.
If he's not winning, it's going to be embarrassing.
I'm going to be honest with you.
You know, I respect him, but he's pretty much always been with the strongest, or one of the strongest teams.
And that's nothing to disrespect, but I just want to point out that he has quite a few opportunities that quite a few other drivers do not get.
And, I mean, it's good for him.
If I was super f****ing rich, and I was also good at driving, I'd also drive with the fastest teams.
But if he doesn't win, that would be actually, like, career suicide.
Because he's in, we've said it, like, I think the last three champions were Trident, and always with quite a margin.
I think we saw it with Camara last season.
Yeah, Camara, Fornaroli, Bortoleto.
I mean, we saw it with Camara last season, right?
Where, you know, you just felt like Trident was pretty much already an F2 car.
And I think Slater's really good, but he has not done as many reverse grid races.
So I think that would really be something for me, that either he will prove himself, and if he, like, goes into this weekend, and he goes pole and starts 12th in the reverse grid race,
and he still wins the sprint, you know, then I say, you know what, let's f***ing go.
I mean, I remember at Spa GB3 last year, he had engine issues in qualifying, so he had to start from the back.
And in all three races, he came to finish in, like, the top 10.
But I feel like the top 10 is really difficult, because if you start last in GB3, that's like, you start next to Bianca Bustamante.
So, like, is it really, is it really proof of talent if you can overtake her quickly?
Yeah, but I mean, he went through the whole field quickly, and in the last race, okay, albeit there was a thing with the, I mean, that's the main thing with reverse grid, but that would be an interesting thing.
But I think he does have the racecraft to be able to come through.
I'm just trying to point out that I feel like the midfield of F3 is probably, not a midfield, like, the top 10 that will be lined up on the grid will be stronger than, like, the midfield of GB3.
That's just…
Oh, yeah, definitely.
I think, I mean, of course, in Formula Regional Oceania, there was some reverse grid races and.
Also, the cars are more difficult to use to do a takeover, overtake, what?
Yeah, but he is all by far the favourite for the title, but he does have decent teammates as well.
I mean, de Palo, now signed by McLaren, he was runner-up in FRECA behind Slater last year.
And Stromstead is one of the very many Mercedes academy casualties, so maybe he has something to prove.
Maybe he'll, I don't know, fight Slater for the title or something.
And he was in Trident last year, and he did, you know, he did decent-ish?
Yeah, he was decent last year.
Was he in Trident?
Yeah.
Yeah, he was.
Oh my god, I have to check. I have to check.
Yeah no, he was with Trident, I'm fairly sure.
Yeah, he was.
Was he? Because I did not feel like he was, but maybe he was.
I have to look at it.
Oh my god, he really was.
Wasn't he the weakest out of the bunch?
Which is not bad, because Camara still won the title, and Wurz also did pretty well.
But I saw someone say on Twitter that this Trident lineup is probably the strongest lineup Trident has had in any championship ever.
And you know what? I agree.
Because Slater alone is really, really strong.
But also, de Palo, as you've said, he became runner-up in Freca, which is quite the feat.
And I do not have in mind who actually competed in FRECA last season, but I swear it was a fairly strong grid, I'd say.
It was a pretty good grid, I think.
I feel like what I remember most from last season is that, obviously, you always have the problem of certain teams being stronger, certain teams being weaker, so it's not always representable.
But I feel like it was a pretty nice grid.
I don't think you can really complain about being second.
I mean, everyone wants to be first, but…
Like when you have Freddie Slater on the grid, it's kind of hard to be first.
But we also have quite a few other drivers that did FRECA last season, who were worse than him, and they're still on the F3 grid.
So if we say de Palo was runner-up, and we look at other drivers later who also competed at FRECA, he's kind of expected to maybe not do better than him.
Get a few podiums, maybe.
I'd say, you know, for maybe him, get a few podiums, maybe a win, you know.
Just have a decent, strong season.
And as for Stromsted, he was the second strongest driver last year in Trident, finishing sixth.
Wurz was like... Wurz was 13th, he was way off.
I just remember Wurz was right behind Camara a handful of times, and they told him to keep the position and to not attack.
And that kind of... that kind of bugged me a bit.
What is Wurz even doing this year?
Isn't he doing something Super Formula? I don't know if he does Super Formula or Super Formula Lights.
He's doing Super Formula and Super GT.
But I feel like Stromsted was really forgotten last year.
I feel like he was there, but I mean, I just looked at the grid.
And the thing is, everyone talked about, like, Camara, Tsolov.
I talked about Tramnitz the f***ing time.
And they're still favourites from other teams, but I feel like him being Danish didn't really help him with anyone but my father, who really likes him.
Yeah, but he was solid.
He was really solid, but he was, like, midfield solid, and that's sadly not enough for a lot of people, especially if your teammate is the champion.
He's, like, one of those drivers the same way with Nael, who, you know, had a first season.
It was alright, and, you know, people that are really, really attentive to F3 will be like:
“Hey, he can really do a step up this year.”
I can see him finishing in the top five.
But if you're not a hardcore watcher every single weekend, and you know every single name, you're not really remembering him.
I think for him, it's very much, can he build on from last season?
He needs to improve, because he can't, you know, you're finishing sixth in kind of the best car, and in the end, you know,
Trident were easily the fastest last year.
But they finished second in the team's championship, which…
But as I've also mentioned with Wurz, they were kind of really acting all in favour of Camara, which is, you know, he was, especially Totsdian, who was the title favourite.
They wanted him to get that title as soon as possible and support him.
And, I mean, I don't know how much Mercedes actually, you know, still did with him towards the end of the season.
So it's kind of... And I think the grid last season, with quite a few really good guys, it was really competitive.
And it was difficult, especially after, like, the summer when…
It wasn't after summer, actually, because I always talk about it was after summer, but when Boya finally really showed up, and suddenly he was, like, crazy fast.
And then I'd say this year's grid is even stronger, I feel like.
Yeah, the grid this year is pretty good. So let's see what he can do, I guess.
Yeah, because, like, when you look at MP, I'd say all three, you know, they're quite solid drivers, they're good drivers, and I feel like, I don't know, you're kind of Colanaghi, Taponen, Giusti, any of them.
Yeah, that was a really good segue.
I have a question. Is Taponen still with the Ferrari Driver Academy?
Yes, he is.
Okay, okay, that influences my opinion of him a bit.
What I'm saying is that I really, really like the Ferrari Driver Academy, actually, not necessarily their drivers.
But, I really think the Academy itself is really good, because whenever you see videos of them, it's like, oh, we sent all the drivers on a training camp.
Every single one of our drivers, you know, gets support in, they all get the shoes from Puma sponsored, you know.
They all get, like, crazy training camps, where I'm pretty sure, if you're a driver, it really, really helps you to have this guidance by yourself.
Because it is guidance, because it is really the opportunity that you get from the team.
And I think that if Taponen were to not have that, I would expect him to do worse than he does while he does have that.
And I think this season, especially, I think he's the only Ferrari Driver Academy member in F3, right?
Uh, yeah, he's the only one.
Like, last season, he was kind of also second to Camara, because obviously, the Ferrari Driver Academy also mainly cared about, you know, where’s Camara, they wanted him to win.
But this season, if they can support him, they will, because he's like their main guy in the series.
They'll be like, let's f***ing go with him.
And we know Taponen can be, he did quite well in Formula Regional two years ago, I think it was.
And I think last year, he did struggle a bit.
But then again, now, he's a returning driver.
And second year, you can do wonders sometimes.
So it's like, can you build on that?
I kind of really rate him on the same area as Stromsted.
Because to me, they're just, like, really similar, actually.
Because I don't know where that's from.
But they kind of, you know, they were both with top team academies, but didn't get, like, 100% of the attention of that.
And they're really solid drivers, I think.
But especially last season, they kind of went under the radar of casual fans.
And I really think he looks like that one prince from the British Crown family.
And that's really important to me, because it always freaks me out.
Yeah, I mean, but he is an interesting one.
Even, I mean, Colanaghi, you know, he's a Red Bull junior.
He dominated.
He won Eurocup 3 last year, even though he didn't show up for the last round, because he was at Macau.
So he just wasn't there.
Just didn't show up.
Yeah, he just wasn't there.
He was at Macau.
And he ended up P4 in Macau.
So, like, I'd say he's pretty good.
He does have the disadvantage of being a rookie versus Taponen and Giusti, who are both in their second seasons.
But I do expect to see some, like, good performances from him.
Also, I've just realized that all three of MP's drivers are backed by F1 driver academies.
Oh, I was about to say that as well.
Like, you have Colanaghi with Red Bull, Taponen with Ferrari, and Giusti with Williams.
Can you repeat his name, please, so I know how to pronounce it?
Colangahi..
Colanaghi..
Well, I think that he has the advantage that Eurocup 3, you know, like, FRECA actually does drive.
I think they drive quite a few of the European circuits, so that should actually really help him.
And I know we always talk like rookies don't necessarily do so well.
But I think, I have a feeling that Red Bull is also one of the teams that I think can really support their juniors.
And we've seen quite a few of them do pretty well.
I have a feeling he will do good.
Yeah, they raced at four of the F3 circuits.
Red Bull Ring, Monza, Spa, and Barcelona.
If you're a Red Bull junior, they will shoot you if you don't do well around Red Bull Ring.
That's the point.
And I think also the Red Bull academy, like Ferrari, like you were saying, they do something to do.
I always see on, like, you know, wheels and stuff.
They have their, you know, training camps.
I feel like Red Bull is more on like the side of where they- I mean, they do have really good sports facilities.
Because I always post the videos of, you know, here's the drivers working out.
And, you know, they show them in their, like, little Red Bull branded gym.
And they do a lot of stuff where they let them just do VR stuff, which is maybe good for them monetarily.
But I think they also have a good simulator probably.
Maybe they, like, call up Max and ask him, you know, what's, what's the simulator.
Max Verstappen on speed dial.
Imagine you're in Red Bull and you can probably, like, not directly ask him.
But you do have, like, his data as reference point.
And they're like, you know, look how Max drives that corner.
And he got pole by a second.
Try that too.
And I'm just bullsh*t talking.
We should go on.
So do we want to move on to ART?
Yeah.
ART, you know, one of the.
What happens at ART?
They have three rookies.
Well, there are quite a few teams with an all rookie line-up this year.
I mean, my first point about them is a criticism, I'd say, because I am disappointed there is no Evan Gilitare.
He has some funding issues, so he's competing in Super Formula Lights.
But, I mean, I feel like he is kind of a, he was probably one of the strongest drivers in FRECA last year.
Unfortunately, the team couldn't deliver, but he did win in the Middle East.
With the funding issues, with the funding issues thing.
Same thing with Akshay Bohra, who I think should have been on the F3 grid.
But he also is doing Super Formula Lights instead.
I mean, I saw someone say that, you know, whatever team he's with in Super Formula does like an exchange with ART.
Like, I think it's, is it Kato who's like, from, wait, before I say something stupid, I need to look something up.
Yeah, I mean, we have Gladys, who, he did win the Winter Series in EC3 last year.
But then, in the main season, his performance was not quite replicated.
So, of course, you know, Winter Series and the main season are kind of extremely different.
Because, just before he’s, just because he's performing in the winter, that's a lot more condensed.
People maybe don't care as much about the Winter Series as opposed to the main series.
But, you know, I just looked at it, and it's neither of the F3 drivers.
But I swear, I saw someone talk about how ART takes up drivers from, because they have, like, they have, like, connection with, I don't remember which one.
But with a team from Asia, from, like, Japan.
And that they kind of take up drivers from them and, like, do s*** with them in Europe, where ART has more experience.
And, like, this is the first time that European driver has, you know, been sent over.
Like, they do, like, in little exchange, and it's really nice.
And, like, I saw some people talk about either that'll allow him to, like, have a really nice career over in Japan.
You know, if you do really well in Super Formula, maybe it's not F1.
But, you know, we see quite a few really good guys from those championships do their stuff also in GT over the world.
And also in endurance racing and, like, hyper cars.
So, I think, you know, it's maybe not F1, but I think it's still a really good way for him.
And I'm really disappointed at how sh**ty the funding situation is.
Yeah, I feel like with this ART lineup, I mean, it's not like that.
Like, I'd say they're decent because, I mean, all three of them finished top 10 in their main series last year.
I mean, I think Kato and Le were, like, ninth and seventh respectively.
So, it's like, they're not awful by any means.
But it's like, that is kind of there.
I think they'll be midfield drivers because they're on the advantage that I think none of them has any priority in the team.
Where it's like…
No academy support.
Yeah, not just that.
Like, if you look at it, you know, like, last season, like, Laurens van Hoepen was, you know, in his second season.
So, the team kind of maybe didn't support him, but he had that advantage of experience.
So, he was automatically kind of doing something where his teammates maybe weren't quite able to do the same.
But they're all rookies, you know, they're all known.
They all are in favourites for the title.
Yeah, and they all finished around the same position in their respective championships as well.
Kind of, like, lower half of the top 10.
Yeah, I mean, I feel like we'll just see them somewhere.
Yeah, but they'll be there.
And also, even if we wanted them to do well, I don't trust ART.
Yeah, ART is very much a midfield team as well.
So, they're just going to be there, I feel like.
They're just there with the vibes.
Maybe a random podium.
So, we talked a bit about Akshay Bohra.
Let's switch over to his ex-teammate from last year, Enzo Deligny.
That was not such a smooth switch.
Tried, okay.
I tried, I tried.
I tried.
But yeah, let's go to VAR.
Everyone gets allowed one crashout in this one.
And it's your…
What's the English term for it?
Your floor?
The floor is yours.
It's my turn.
The floor is yours, great.
Okay.
So, obviously, the big storyline of VAR is Deligny’s whole PREMA thing.
And for anyone listening who is not super active on Twitter, the whole “PREMA is good bro calm” tweet originally came from a reply to me.
Because I was upset that he was joining PREMA.
Because, as we all know, PREMA has not been very good recently.
So, I was upset that he was joining PREMA.
And the guy himself replied to me being like, PREMA is good bro calm.
And so, fast forward a couple months, PREMA is not good.
No one is calm.
And he's left the team.
But yeah.
So, he moved to VAR after so many rumors.
And no one really knew what was happening.
But yeah.
I'm going to get a tattoo of that tweet.
PREMA was obviously not good bro.
And he jumped ship.
A feeder series hall of fame, really.
Top ten moments.
Exactly.
But yeah.
Just the beauties of social media that you can interact with drivers like this.
And then you're reminded that they're just unserious teenagers.
Yeah, exactly.
Because, like, if you're just on Twitter, like, some of Enzo's replies, like, he's just using memes by the situation.
He really is just, like, peak 17-year-old boy.
I know, he is.
And I think that also reminds us a lot of this humanity of this driver's cause.
You know, like, at least in F1, you know, they're more polished.
They're adults.
They're more professional.
F3, that's 16 and 17.
These guys are teenagers.
Yeah, that's what he's saying.
They're 16, 17-year-olds.
He's probably saying, you know, he's saying “bludski”.
The whole, like, FIA test thingy that they were doing and didn't know, like, the answers to that.
What was going on with that?
Give me a test of that.
I would have passed it.
I would have freestyled it.
I saw, like, the questions.
Like, I saw two questions on Twitter and they were in French, but I translated them and they didn't seem that bad.
So I don't know what's going on with that.
They're all stupid and didn't go to school.
I mean, if it's anything like driving theory, it's common sense, I feel.
But you have to imagine that.
I have a few questions about this.
First question, are all the questions in English or is there any option to have them, like, in your language?
Because I could imagine that, especially if you speak a language that's, like, far removed from English or you don't speak English well,
if the questions are not in, like, a language you speak well, it can be very difficult, especially if it's on technical terms.
Second question, have we considered that majority of them has not really been in school?
But, like, the thing is, the questions that I saw, it was like, um, what was it?
Like, one of the questions I saw was, if you won a race but then got penalized but then still ended up on the podium, what do you do?
Do you, like, cuss out the stewards or do you just celebrate your podium?
No, I'm going to go punch the stewards.
Yeah, I'm going to go crash into someone.
I'm going to go show them my fist.
You have to consider, you have to consider quite a few of these drivers, with all due respect,
do not go into school and care a lot about English and English text understanding.
Like, they read that and, you know, you can mix words up and you can completely misunderstand such a question.
But the whole thing, it's so funny.
It's so, like, in a school or university group chat call, who's got the answers?
Yeah guys, does everyone have the answers?
Does everyone know what's going on?
When I'm in university, I always let the other students do my online tests.
Not because I'm lazy, but because they study more serious sh*t than me.
That actually happened once.
Yeah, and I feel like within VAR, Deligny, am I saying his name right?
Wait, wait, wait.
How do you say his name?
Because I've seen everything.
I thought it was de-line-e, but I saw what I heard one commentator call him de-lick-nee, which is what I call him when I want to make fun of him.
But, like, Robin says, what did you say?
Because it was not de-line-e.
I've been saying de-lean-e, because that's what I heard, like, when I was first watching FRECA, and also during Macau, that's what they were calling him.
Maybe we should ask him to send us a voice note.
Who called him de-lick-nee?
The FRECA commentator switched to de-lick-nee at the end of the season, and it was so weird.
Who is he licking?
Who’s knees are he licking?
So, about the, about, I'm going to call him de-line-e, and if he has a problem with that, I have Twitter, I don't give a f***.
Yeah, exactly.
He'll just, like, tag you on Twitter, being like, that's not how you say my name.
Can we get him on, just for him to explain how, you know, how we can say his name, please?
I think he would very much be the lead driver within that team, because he did really well in the
He was third in FRECA last year.
He is a good driver, and, I mean, he's abandoned PREMA, which was very much the smart idea to do.
I mean, del Pino is, again, he's just sort of there.
I want to point out about Van Amfersfoort in general that, if I look back at last season, like, they were not necessarily, like, the best.
I need to check something, how they actually performed, so I can really judge it, but I don't have them in mind as, I mean, they also did not have, like, the best drivers yet.
Nael, Santiago Ramos, and Ivan Dominguez.
And I feel like Nael was kind of a right place in the championship.
He was top eight.
I think Deligny can maybe do something like that.
I mean, Del Pino was, like…
Yeah, I also expect it.
But I, sadly, don't think that, just because of the machinery, that he will be able to fight for the championship.
Even, I mean, he has a bit of a disadvantage.
He's, you know, he's a rookie.
He, you know, it's difficult.
He doesn't have all that sponsoring, you know.
He does not have a teammate that he could really learn quite a lot of, where he could say, hey, I'm doing, like, this season as, like, just a throwaway season just to learn the circuits and stuff.
But I think that he should be able to be, like, top ten and, like, you know, do a solid P9 championship and hopefully join a stronger team next season.
Similar to what Niall has done, that's what he can aim for.
Because, I mean, Del Pino is, like, very much lower midfield last year.
Lower midfield, I mean…
I think, wasn't Del Pino the lowest MP?
I think so, I mean…
He finished 20-something last year.
Yeah, he was the lowest MP by far, because Tramnitz was fourth.
Should have been third.
Giusti was 10th, and Del Pino was 23rd.
I know that at some point, something happened where he was, like, where people were, like, “oh, he shouldn't have gotten a penalty or something.”
And I think at some point his lap time was deleted or something.
So he started from the back for two races.
But he barely, very rarely got points.
He only got one podium.
And his best finish was eighth in the Spa sprint race.
He did have a P2, Imola sprint.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I was looking at, like, when he was points finish.
When he did points finish.
Why the f**k did he get it?
Yeah, I mean, Camara did nothing in that race.
Boya retired.
And quite a few of the other typical front runners had a really bad race.
It was Imola.
Imola's always crazy, but that was his best.
And other than that, he only did get points in three other races, which were, yeah, it was not that good, I think.
I mean, especially if you compare it, because I know MP was not the best in general, but let's compare him just out of fairness to Giusti, because I think it's unfair to put him on a level with Tramnitz.
But, I mean, Giusti pretty regularly got points.
He got two podiums.
He was, like, often in, like, you know, somewhere between P6 and P10, which is a solid place to be in, what I expect from an MP driver.
But I feel like Van Amersfoort is even worse than MP, so that's, it's not looking good for him.
I think he will be in a pretty similar position in a championship, again, similar, mainly just because he has that experience.
But I'm going to look for the other two drivers, because I swear they were also down in the 20s, Ramos and Domingues.
Domingues was 19th, and Ramos was 15th.
And Ramos had two wins.
Yeah, I mean, it's very much like your midfield team, you know, you take maybe.
I think the aim for, like, let's be getting a few solid points from this year, just be consistent.
And then he can move up a team for next year very much.
I mean, it would be his third season, so if he does not, you know, prove anything this season, I think F2 looks very unlikely for him.
You never know.
I mean, maybe he magically makes up a step and gets in a top ten.
Look at the F2 reserve, anything can happen.
You know what?
Exactly.
He can go to F2, I don't give a f**k.
Let's go on.
Rodin.
I mean, Badoer, I mean, he's been doing surprisingly well in test-.
I mean, of course, testing is testing.
It doesn't mean too much, but…
I have one-sided beef with him.
Why?
Spa, do you not remember Spa?
He was at…
Oh, yeah, of course.
One of the worst moments of my life.
Yeah, Badoer is…
I mean, last year, he was…
Do you need to go further on that?
Because I feel like if you listen to this, it's just going to sound again like I'm absolutely insane.
I mean, Clerot I feel like, he's the rookie in the team.
He had a solid…
I mean, he was fourth in FREC last year.
FRECA, whatever you want to call it.
Last season was still FRECA.
FRECA, yeah there
I've written FRECA down for some reason, so it's like, oh, it's FREC now.
But no, last year was FRECA , so all of the FRECA front winners are now coming up to F3, apart from Giltaire.
I think Rodin is pretty…
I think they won’t do quite a lot.
I mean, Christian Ho is the same guy who was at DAMS last season, no?
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, it was DAMS.
What are we supposed to say?
I don't know, but we can move on to the juicy one in PREMA, where Enzo ran away from.
Cause PREMA, there's stuff to say about, I feel like.
Okay, I'm deeply upset.
That's how we are starting this.
All right?
Deeply upset.
First of all, you know what?
We had a pretty good lineup at first, you know?
I'm not the biggest fan of, personally, Wharton.
But Wharton, Sharp, you know, that was okay.
Deligny, that would have been a great lineup.
De-lick-knee?
De-lick-knee.
Why is he licking knees?
Shut up.
But I swear to God, him leaving to VAR single-handedly dropped PREMA from what could have been a top five, maybe, team finish, to, like, way down the bottom at, like, seven.
Okay?
Because there is no way.
I've never heard of this guy.
Okay?
Sorry.
For those who are unaware, the lineup next year for PREMA is Sharp, Wharton, and who's that guy?
Garfias?
Yeah, he did Euro Formula Open last year.
Euro Formula Open?
That is not a real championship.
And I think PREMA, overall, are a team who…
Are dying!
Yeah, I mean, we see in IndyCar they’re-
They ain't there in St. Pete.
They're not there in St. Pete.
They're not on the entry list for any, like, of the upcoming, like, races, as far as I can tell.
As much as I would like to be like, oh, you know, “Callum Illott’s being weird about it. That means he's probably going to be racing.”
That doesn't mean anything.
So, financially speaking, and as just a general thing, they are failing…
Not failing.
They are degrading.
As a team, they're not doing very well.
I'd say they're wilting, because, I mean, their karting team is now gone.
And you see, across their lineups, I mean, apart from in FREC, their lineups are quite weak compared to the traditional PREMA, I would say.
I'd say Formula 1 Academy is also pretty alright at the moment.
Yeah, I think it's, in F1 Academy, because they always announce, oh, you're Mercedes or you're PUMA.
I have no clue who's with what team.
Actually, we're still missing one, I think.
Yeah, because we have Paatz and Westcott.
Matilda Paatz is pretty nice, and Peyton Westcott also seems pretty good.
So, I think it should be good.
Yeah, my bad, yeah.
As I said, F1 Academy, I don't know who's driving for what team, because the brand is like, oh, you're the Lego team.
Anyway, let's go back to PREMA.
I just opened my list of all the drivers who drove for PREMA in the past, and, you know, where they are now.
And it's like, they could fill their own F1 grid.
Look at PREMA in 2024.
In 2024, you had Antonelli and Bearman in F2, and F3, you had Mini, Lindblad, and Beganovic.
Three of those five drivers are on the F1 grid this year.
And the other two are also good, because even if it's not F1 for them, I mean, I really expect Mini to go to FE or something.
I think we mentioned it last round, so…
FE, yeah.
Nissan FE.
But they're good drivers.
I rate them for something.
Who is Garfias?
Where is he going?
Who is Garfias, bro?
I've never heard of this guy.
He's Abhkazava’ed into my life.
Like, the weakest driver of PREMA 2024 is probably stronger than their best driver this year in F2, F3.
Yeah, and I mean, if you look at F3 2024, they all had team backing.
They had, like, huge teams.
You had a Ferrari driver.
You had a Red Bull driver.
You had a Mercedes driver.
You had an Alpine driver.
You had everything.
Who are these people?
They're just there.
No one of them has any backing of an F1 team, bar their F1 Academy drivers, which is technically another toast, so whatever.
But neither Sharp, nor Wharton, nor Garfias is on that level where they're recognised by huge teams like Red Bull, Ferrari, Alpine,
where they would be like, hey, we want you.
These people even had, you know, back in the day, Mini even had relations to FE teams.
You know, they’re all dead sh*t.
I can't see the same thing.
Out of the bunch, I do think that Sharp should be the highest because Rodin was kind of…
It's shown in testing, too.
And I think Sharp is the kind of driver who could, you know, kind of go somewhere and in another time, he could have had a team backing him.
I mean, things could be different.
But I think, especially for Wharton and Garfias…
And also Sharp, he is a GB3 champion.
So, you know, there is…
There is…
And he's won, you know, British F4.
He did struggle a bit last year, but there is definitely something there.
And I mean, I feel like last year he did underperform to expectations, but there's no reason why he can't improve.
Especially, I mean, given his competition in his team is what?
Garfias and Wharton.
I think he will be by far the best of the bunch.
But I also think…
Let me check something.
I think what my theory was last season, why he was underperforming, was the fact that before that, he pretty much only had experience on British circuits.
Because…
Exactly.
I mean, British F4 obviously only drives in Britain.
And these days they drive in Zandvoort.
But I just looked back and when he drove there, they did not drive in Zandvoort either.
But…
So the only circuit that he knows from British F4 is Silverstone.
In GB3, okay, they did Spa, Hungaroring, and Zandvoort, and Silverstone.
But he's still missing quite a few circuits like Melbourne, Bahrain, Imola, Monza.
Barcelona-Catalunya, Red Bull Ring, Monza.
And the thing is, what I'm also proposing and what I want to talk about when we get to Hitech in a second, and McLaughlin especially, is that circuits are different from each other.
Not just from the way that they're laid out, but also from the way that the car behaves from them.
From the way the tarmac feels if you're in there.
From the way that you handle the tires.
Because how you drive in Bahrain, it's incredibly different from how you drive around Oulton Park.
It's not just in a way that, you know, there's different corners, there's different, you know, straights.
And I think Oulton Park is like kind of, has like a bit of hill, like a bit of change in height.
But the thing is, they also have different times.
I mean, especially Bahrain, it's totally different just from the heat.
That's not something that you experience racing in Britain.
The way that the tires react to that heat is not something that you find when you drive in Britain.
It's, I think, it's something that I imagine as someone who has never driven a Formula car before.
But I have driven streetcars before, and I can tell you that there's a huge difference between, you know, what kind of road you're driving on and what kind of environment you're driving in.
And I imagine it's a huge difference.
Yeah, and I think that Sharp's struggles will be, last year will be something that McLaughlin will experience this year.
Because he is doing quite a, he's doing an even bigger step than what Sharp did.
Because this is going to be McLaughlin's only second ever season in cars.
Because he did British F4 last year.
Of course, he was a champion.
But the year before, he was in karting.
I want to throw back what I said, what I said earlier, before we started to talk.
And that is that, before McLaughlin, Ollie Bearman also did this jump where he, you know, jumped from F4 to F3.
But, yeah, we are at Hitech right now.
But the thing is, before he jumped to F3, Ollie Bearman did, like, two seasons.
He did in, I think it was 2021 where he did ADAC F4, which is like German F4, and British F4 in like his rookie season.
And then 2022, he did full seasons in ADAC F4, and Italian F4.
And I know he won Italian F4, and I know he was really well in German F4.
He won both.
But I'm not sure if he won both.
He did.
I just know that he was on F3.
Okay, the point is, he was also in a really, really strong grid.
And just generally, really, you know, he had experience before coming there.
McLaughlin.
Man, I really like the guy.
I think he's a really good driver.
But I also saw quite a few people saying that they think he's a good driver, but they don't expect a lot of him from F3.
Because it's a huge jump.
And I've said it before.
I've said it when we talked about Colanaghi.
I think he has this huge advantage where he's in Red Bull.
I think he has, you know, he can work with the team.
But I agree, in which I say, I don't think that he will be able to, like, magically fight for the championship.
Especially because Hitech is also not one of the best teams, you know?
I need to check for a minute where Hitech was last year.
They were ninth.
No, eighth.
Oh.
I think the best one was Stenshorne, who did pretty well.
He was, like, fifth.
But the thing is, he also had huge experience before that.
You know, I think the team is a midfield team.
And his biggest struggle is just the lack of experience on the circuit.
And an F4 car to an F3 car is quite a big step up.
I mean, he did do Formula Regional Oceania in New Zealand where he did struggle quite a bit, I'd say.
It was quite evident as well.
For Formula Regional Oceania, it's the same where I say I imagine circuits in Oceania to be really, really different from circuits in Britain.
And I think getting into the car and being on speed is one thing, which is why I want to see him in Silverstone.
And I think I want him to do really well.
But I won't really say anything about his performance unless we're at Silverstone.
Because I expect him to be quite quick around Silverstone, which he should know pretty well.
But everywhere else, I can't really say anything.
I mean, it's very much kind of easier for him to get the experience than probably doing a second F3 season next year.
It's just like, we have to be realistic about him.
Because, you know, he is good.
It's just…
But I think it's maybe not a sh**ty idea to do this.
And, you know, decide on doing two seasons in F3 rather than wasting one season in FREC with the new cars where you don't even know if it's going to be representative.
And it's, you know, directly making the jump, similar to what Tsolov did, actually.
And really getting onto speed in F3.
And then…
I think it'd be a bit close between Nakamura and McLaughlin.
Because Nakamura, of course, has the experience in FRECA.
Yeah, I can imagine that.
You know, Red Bull does not support him for no reason.
I think he's a pretty good driver.
I think he's…
I really like him.
I rate him.
And I think he's going to do well in the future.
But if he's going to do well in F3 this season, we're going to see.
Let's go to AIX and whatever the hell that line-up is.
I mean, Yevan David, he seems like, you know, he seems like a fun guy.
I like his vibe.
Yeah.
Laughter won't get you to win anything.
Isn't Barrichello Jr. coming from, like, also Formula…
Euro Formula Open?
EFO.
How did he come from Euro Formula Open and only come seventh?
Yeah, and Yevan David was also in Euro Formula Open.
He finished third.
No, second.
Where are all these people coming from?
What happens at Euro Formula Open?
Yeah.
Who won this, actually?
Who won EFO?
I cannot pronounce the name, but it's the cool Polish guy that's doing INDYNXT.
Oh, the one who's afraid of butter?
Him.
Oh, I love him.
I think he's a nice guy.
And even David, he came second.
And…
Yeah, the one who's afraid of butter.
Tymek
Should we just call him that?
I'm just going to call him the butter guy.
You know what's the worst part of this?
What?
Fernando Barrichello is the second worst guy who did a full season.
I mean, he didn't do a full full season.
He missed one race.
But I feel like I wouldn't have changed anything.
Because everyone below him just did like two or three races.
Or like majority less than he did.
It's quite obvious in AIX, I think Benavides is going to be the team leader.
But that's not saying a lot.
Benavides is your team leader.
I mean, he has the experience and he did take two pole positions last year.
I kind of rate.
I don't really rate Benavides, but I think he could be good if he actually did something.
And, you know, oh my God, he was also in Euro Formula Open.
But at least he won.
At least he won.
No.
He was in Euro Formula Open in 2024, but he won.
He won.
Okay.
I mean, at least he brings the experience.
Okay, there were only like five.
No, there were only like three full season drivers.
Oh, okay.
Never mind.
Nice.
How is that?
How are there only like three full season drivers?
And Barrichello still came third.
Oh my goodness.
This list actually pains me.
Because the fourth guy just missed two whole race weekends.
Oh?
Which is like hard to say if he did like whole season.
The fifth guy missed also two whole race weekends.
And everyone below just did like just one or two race weekends.
Except for the guy who withdrawed from like all of the races.
Huh?
But I don't count at full season.
I mean, he has so much experience.
He can be.
He's even in an F2 season.
But on the bright side, Yevan David was a guest driver and thus unable to receive points.
But he did really well, actually.
He came first, third and first.
Which is pretty good.
Which is pretty good, I say.
I mean, you only have to drive against like three drivers who are apparently kind of a**.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's see how they do.
I miss PHM.
You know, I took over from PHM and they were also kind of a**.
But at least they were, you know, they weren't money laundering.
Anyways.
DAMS.
I don't have anything to say about DAMS.
So.
Nor do I.
I think they'll be just like the last three drivers again.
Because besides drivers and that I don't really rate them.
DAMS is the newest team as well.
The team is not doing good.
Who's in the team?
That's how bad I've not like paid attention to them at all.
Lacorte, Bhirombhakdiand, and Gerrard Xie.
I think I'm going to have to check something because I think Gerrard Xie was not that bad, actually.
Bhirombhakdiand was 16th in Freca.
Okay.
Oh my god.
He was also.
No, don't say it.
Gerrard Xie was also in Euro Formula Open.
Oh no, no, no.
But he did win Formula Renault Super Challenge and the F4 Chinese Championship back in 2022.
And he came second in Macau.
He was 29th in F3 last year.
Oh.
But.
He scored one point.
He was also in Hitech, which was not the best team.
But I think he was the weakest high tech.
We also have to consider that hiding was going through some s*** last year.
Yeah.
Actually, we cannot rate Gerrard Xie’s Chinese F4 season because I just checked it and there were only two full season entries.
Was he one of them?
Yes.
And he won every single race but two.
One, he retired and one, he came second.
But he was the only two full season entries, which is also kind of beautiful if you think about it.
I'm going to send you all the screenshots of the championships later because that's just beautiful.
Okay.
You know what?
It's enough.
Any predictions for this season?
Before we go to predictions, can I just say one thing?
I have one more thing to say.
Why is the finale in Madrid not Monza?
Yeah.
Monza has so much aura.
Is it actually happening?
Oh my god.
Pretty much.
I'm praying on Madring’s downfall because I, user monzabanking is angry at this.
I love Monza.
Monza got to be the last one.
It's just how things have to be.
You know, Monza is beautiful.
Monza is the beginning and the ending.
It's like the, the, the alpha, the, I mean, it was just like German, um.
It's like the holy grail.
It's the holy grail of motor racing.
Yeah, exactly.
You cannot end in Madring.
You know, everyone's going to crash in Madring because it's a new circuit and it's not a great circuit.
But Monza, Monza's beautiful.
Monza's a beautiful circuit.
It's always been there.
It has hosted the most of the races.
If you win in Monza, you, I mean, Monza to me is kind of like Monaco.
I didn't give a f*** about who wins in Monaco.
But if you win in Monza, then you a real one to me.
And if Monza is not the title, because I don't think it'll be the title decider anyways, because of, you know, Slater is going to win it in Silverstone.
Oh yeah, definitely.
We're going to make, um, Formula 3.5, which is like Formula 3, but we don't count Slater.
And I need to know who wins if Slater's not there.
And this will be decided in Monza.
I'm just not going to count Madring versus…
I don't give a f***.
What's Madring?
Madrid ring is not real.
Well, it literally isn't right now.
Okay.
Predictions, predictions.
I mean, I feel like it's obvious who I'm going to say.
Freddie Slater to dominate and win every single win.
Okay.
I'll be serious now.
Slater and Ugochukwu title fight with Slater coming out on top.
Oh, I can see that.
I assume Slater will take, like, majority of poles and break Camara’s record for, like…
Didn't he make a record on poles?
Yeah.
Okay.
He's going to break the record.
He's going to win majority of future races.
He's going to win at least one sprint race.
Probably…
Maybe more.
And I think he's going to do generally really, really well and break some records along the way.
And I think further we are looking at a title fight.
But it's not just Ugochukwu, but also Nael who's kind of involved in that.
And he's like…
He kind of has fingers in that.
And, you know, that's right about it.
And we're going to have a standout performance by one of the midfield teamers like Colanaghi or maybe Deligny or…
You know what?
Maybe Sharp.
I'm going to put it in Sharp.
Anything for PREMA mention?
Yeah.
But, no.
Honestly, I think in F3 this season, it's very clear to see who's going to come out on top, who's going to be in the midfield,
and who's going to be at the very bottom, I feel, this year.
Wait, I have one more prediction.
I have the prediction that we're going to see one seat that's like musical chairs again.
I mean, AIX probably.
Like the AIX last year, like at different drivers.
Yeah, but like AIX is too easy for that.
I think all of them have quite a bit of money and they're like serious about it.
But I'm saying, DAMS, if we get another race ban.
And maybe I have a feeling for Hitech.
I need to say one of those two.
Personally, my prediction for the title is that Enzo Deligny is winning it all.
Well, I think that'll be it for this episode of the Grand Prequel Pod.
Be sure to give us a follow on Twitter, Instagram, and TikTok @grandprequel.
And let us know your thoughts about this episode.
We're going to be previewing the F1 Academy season next week.
So let us know what you want to hear from us for next episode.
And thanks for listening.